In this video, we're going to see how to put out Matrix into reduced row echelon form.
First thing we're gonna want to do is to have a one in the upper right hand corner.
Now, in this particular matrix, there's several ways we can do that.
But the easiest one that I like to do is just swap those top two rows -- simple swap, row one and row two here.
That gives us one, two, three, two; two, four, negative six, zero; negative one, one, negative three, and one.
I'm going to go ahead and circle that one, because it's where I want it to be.
To help me keep track along the way. Now that I have a one in that pivot position, I want to try and make zeros above and below it.
So in this case, that just means below it. So to make that two below it into a zero.
We can take that row 2, and we can subtract off two row ones that'll make that two in the first column into a zero.
So our first column--first row, rather-- is going to stay the same. Second row, we're going to have a zero.
Also, a zero. Also, zero; now subtract off two times two.
That gives us a negative four. And our third row will remain the same negative one, one, three, one.
Our first column's almost done. We just need to get that negative one in the bottom left to be a zero as well.
So we can take row 3 and we can add.
row 1 to it. So this will turn into -- our first two rows stay the same.
One, two, negative three, two; our second row, still zero, zero, zero, negative four.
Now, the bottom row. We're just going to add we get zero, three, negative six, and 3.
So now what we're going to do is we're going to shift our attention to the second row, so we'll come down and we'll go over.
And now we're going to look at this spot right here. So this is our next candidate for a spot, for a pivot.
So we want to make that a one if we can. Now, unfortunately, we have a zero there, which complicates things a little bit.
But one way we can get around that is to just swap the second and third rows there.
This gives us a non-zero thing in that spot we're interested in. I'll go ahead, write down our first row again, because we're leaving that alone.
No one swap in those last two rows. We havezero, three, negative six, threee.
We have zero, zero, zero, negative four.
And now one way we can turn that three into a one is to multiply that whole second row.
By one third. Go ahead and write down the top row and the bottom row.
Those aren't changing. We'll multiply the second row by one third -- still zero, one, and negative two.
And the one. Now we have a one where we wanted to.
Now we'll proceed to make zero above and below it--lucky for us, there's already zero below it.
We just had to make a zero above it.
So we'll take row one, make it subtract off two of those row twos so that we can use that one pivot spot to make things zero.
So I have one; two minus two ones-- zero; negative three minus two negative twos is a positive one.
And then two minus two ones is zero. And still the second rowstays the same.
And our last row stays the same. So far, so good.
And now we'll first look at this next spot over what we see, that's a zero.
And unfortunately, we have nothing below us to help. We saw in the previous time we could use the three below to turn that zero into a non zero thing.
But here we're stuck. There's no way to make that a nonzero without going back to the rows above that we had already put into a nice form.
So instead, we'll just move over to the next one. And this is going to be our next pivot spot here.
We'll try and turn this negative four into a one. So one easy way to do that would be to multiply that last row by negative one fourth.
So our top two rows stay the same.
Bottom row looks like zero zero zero one.
Now, the last thing left to do is to make sure we have zeros above and below that last pivot -- in this case, that just means above.
So our last operation here will just be to subtract row three from row two.
Row one stays the same. Zero; one minus zero is still one; negative two minus zero, still negative two; but now we have a zero here.
And that last row is the same.
So now we see here we have the reduced row echelon form of our original matrix.